>> Mike North: The next tool I'm
going to show you is called syncpack.
And what this helps you do is detect
variants in the versions of packages.
Sorry, the variance in the versions
of external dependencies
that your packages depend on.
So this is the tool that
will help you identify how
many versions of React are in
your micro front ends.
And potentially it will help
you consolidate down so
that your checkout times.
So your like npm install or
pnpm install times are faster.
And you're starting to benefit
from the idea of a monorepo,
which means there's a greater sense of
sort of the whole repo advancing together.
There is an alpha version of this.
They have a stable release that's like,
I think they're V12 and
we're using their V13.
So by the time you take this course,
it might not be alpha, but
this will work today.
It's just a faster version of the tool.
So let's install it.
And let's see what it did just now.
Just package.json and
the lock file, makes sense.
All right,
now we're gonna do pnpm syncpack lint.
No issues found.
I have to create the issues.
Sorry.
I intended to sneakily drop in a bunch of
problems here that we
would be able to find.
If you're copying and pasting from the
course notes, you will find those things.
But here's what we're going to do.
I'm going to say we're using TypeScript
5.7 here and in their server,
we're going to say we're
using TypeScript581.
And then elsewhere we have 5.8.3,
so pnpmi.
5.8.3 is, wait, what is it telling me?
No, version 5.8.1.
Maybe that package was pulled.
Really?
Did I type a number that was
greater than 5 or greater than 8?
All right, so
it's saying in server package.json.
This error's not making any sense to me.
We'll try that one, that's fine.
A release candidate, great.
Now it's telling me about the UI package.
Sorry, I'm floundering a little bit
as I try to get us onto a varied
range of different TypeScript versions.
Great.
So now I've got some 5.7.x
version in my Ui package,
some 5.6.x version in my server package.
And in models, I'm going to float as far
as I can in the 5.8 release stream.
We should get a lint hit here, and we do.
So we can see that it's telling us
we've got three copies of TypeScript,
and these are the things
that it has identified.
Now, personally, I like the check
like the lint command here.
It also has a sync pack fix,
which what that will do is go and
forcibly bump these up.
And I guess if you're super confident
that that's gonna work out, okay,
maybe that's what you wanna do.
But in a project of any
significant complexity,
I would be doing these one at a time and
I might have a check like this
be part of a nightly build or
a weekly build where I could sort
of periodically get a report and
keep tabs on how much floating
is actually going on.
How much variance on certain packages is
actually going on within my monorepo.
So still a good tool.
And imagine the case where you have
200 packages in your monorepo.
This really will help you
detect where things are getting
a little weird, especially for
patch versions.
I think they have some arguments
lint help where you can change
the specifier types.
You can look for specific packages,
whether they're runtime dependencies or
dev dependencies or peer dependencies.
So this would be like if your mission is
we're reducing the variance in React,
and we finally get everything
on one REACT version,
then you might have something like this.
And in our case, it'd be,
>> Mike North: Something like that,
where I will inline this into CI.
You have just introduced
a new version of React.
You can't do that.
We fought hard to dedupe and
we're holding the line.
And so this is a nice tool that you
can sort of inline into that and
provide a very actionable failure message.
I just love like, this is a CLI that
someone put a lot of care into.